Here is the background information on your task

We suggest you complete Task 1 before proceeding with this task. 

You are part of Quantium’s retail analytics team and have been approached by your client, the Category Manager for Chips, has asked us to test the impact of the new trial layouts with a data driven recommendation to whether or not the trial layout should be rolled out to all their stores.

You have received the following email from Zilinka.

'Hi, 

Thanks for your feedback earlier, I’m glad you find my follow up emails helpful in ensuring your on the right track.

For this part of the project we will be examining the performance in trial vs control stores to provide a recommendation for each location based on our insight. Below are some of the areas I want you to focus on, of course if you discover any other interesting insights feel free to include them in your findings.

Select control stores – explore the data and define metrics for your control store selection – think about what would make them a control store. Look at the drivers and make sure you visualise these in a graph to better determine if they are suited. For this piece it may even be worth creating a function to help you. 

Assessment of the trial – this one should give you some interesting insights into each of the stores, check each trial store individually in comparison with the control store to get a clear view of its overall performance. We want to know if the trial stores were successful or not. 

Collate findings – summarise your findings for each store and provide an recommendation that we can share with Julia outlining the impact on sales during the trial period.

Remember when working with a client visualisations are key to helping them understand the data. Be sure to save all your visualisations so we can use them later in our report. We are presenting to our client in 3 weeks so if you could submit your analysis by mid next week that will give us great amount of time to discuss findings and pull together the report.

Keep up the good work!

Thanks, 

Zilinka'